==================== OSNOVI NA HTML I CSS ================


Што претставува веб страна?

Веб-страница е документ до кој се пристапува преку веб-прелистувач и се прикажува на компјутер или мобилен уред. Може 
да содржи текст, слики, видеа и други видови содржина, како и интерактивни елементи како што се врски(линкови) и 
форми. Веб-страниците се напишани во HTML (јазик за означување на хипертекст) и обично се хостирани на веб-сервер, што 
ги прави достапни за корисниците на интернет. Веб-страницата е збирка на веб-страници кои се поврзани една со друга и 
споделуваат заедничко име на домен или URL.


Што е HTML?

HTML е кратенка за Hypertext Markup Language. Тоа е стандарден јазик за означување што се користи за креирање 
веб-страници и други видови онлајн содржини што може да се прикажат на интернет. HTML им овозможува на програмерите да 
ја структурираат содржината на веб-страница со дефинирање на наслови, параграфи, списоци, врски, слики и други 
елементи. Исто така, овозможува користење на листови со стилови и јазици за скриптирање како CSS и JavaScript за 
контрола на изгледот и однесувањето на веб-страниците.

HTML е составен од серија ознаки затворени во аголни загради. Ознаките ја дефинираат структурата и содржината на 
веб-страницата и може да вклучуваат атрибути кои специфицираат дополнителни информации за некој елемент. На пример, 
ознаката <img> се користи за вградување слика на веб-страница, а атрибутот src ја одредува URL-то или патеката на 
датотеката на сликата што треба да се прикаже.




HTML TAGS:

- <!DOCTYPE html> - This is the document type declaration for an HTML document, which tells the browser that the 
document is an HTML file.

- <html></html> - The <html> tag is the top-level element of an HTML document and represents the root of the document 
tree. It is used to enclose all other elements in the document and provides a container for the head and body sections 
of the document.

- <head></head> - The <head> tag is a container element in HTML that contains metadata about the web page, such as the 
title of the page, links to external stylesheets, scripts, and other important information that is not directly 
displayed on the web page. The <head> tag is located between the <html> and <body> tags of an HTML document.

- <title></title> - The <title> tag is an HTML element that defines the title of a web page. It is located within the 
<head> section of an HTML document and is used to provide a concise and descriptive title for the page.

- <meta/> - The <meta> tag is an HTML element used to provide metadata about a web page. Metadata is information about 
a web page that is not visible on the page itself, but is used by browsers, search engines, and other software to 
understand and process the content of the page. The <meta> tag can be used to specify various types of metadata, such 
as the page's title, author, description, keywords, character encoding, and more.

- <body></body> - The <body> tag is an HTML element that defines the visible content of a web page. The <body> tag is 
located within the <html> tag and contains all the content that will be displayed on the page, including text, images, 
links, videos, and other media.

- <p></p> - The <p> tag is an HTML element used to define paragraphs of text on a web page. It stands for "paragraph" 
and is used to create a block of text that is separated from surrounding content, typically with blank lines above and 
below it.

- <h1></h1> - The <h> tag is an HTML element used to create headings or headings of different levels on a web page. 
The "h" stands for "heading", and the number following the "h" indicates the level of the heading, where 1 is the 
highest level and 6 is the lowest level.

- <img /> - The <img> tag is an HTML element used to insert an image into a web page. It is a self-closing tag, which 
means it does not require a closing tag.


Дополнителни материјали:

HTML
- https://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp
- https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html 
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML

Shortcuts, Extensions and basic setup for VSC
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fJEbVCrEMSE
